Currently, in the face of the international trend of unilateralism and power bullying, China will, together
with Russia, shoulder the
responsibilities of world powers and
permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council.
We will uphold the correct view of World
War Two history, safeguard the authority
and status of the United Nations,
resolutely defend the rights and
interests of China, Russia and other
developing countries, and work together
to provide an equal and orderly
world.
Multi polarization and the inclusive
economic globalization.
The two presidents here.
Chinese President Xi Jinping speaking
during that bilateral meeting with
President Putin over in Moscow.
Let's get more on what took place at
that meeting in the Russian capital and
the key takeaways there.
China correspondent Minmin Low has been
covering the story for us.
Is this still a no limits friendship
between the two?
Well, if you want a very visual way to
see how close the two countries are,
just watch the May 9 parade at the
Red Square today, because Chinese troops
are the largest foreign contingent that
are participating in the parade.
That's after Kiev, actually told or asked
foreign countries not to send military
troops to participate in that parade.
And while neither leaders mentioned the
no limit friendship, but President Putin
did say that their friendship is, quote,
unbreakable.
The two leaders still calling each
other, dear friends, there is a long
list of things that they agree on.
If you look at their joint statement,
both calling out, you know, the US
export controls as a means to contain
other countries.
Also calling out the eastward expansion
of NATO as well as the U.S.
Indo-Pacific strategy as big
destabilizes for this region and also
calling for jointly opposing this dual
containment strategy of China and Russia
and the smearing of China, Russia ties
because they seem very keen to highlight
that their ties are not directed at any
third parties.
President Putin saying that both
countries have their own independent
foreign policy making is just that they
are brought together by this common
vision of creating a multipolar world.
And it's not just about tone, it's also
about substance, because they also
signed some deals.
Trade reached $245 billion dollars last
year, which the leader said is not just
a new high.
It's not a it's a it's a new high, but
it's not a new feeling.
And, you know, they say they've meet
some progress on a potential gas
pipeline deal.
And President Putin pledging to create a
more favorable condition for Chinese
companies and also welcoming Chinese
carmakers to build factories in Russia.
This comes after Russia actually imposed
higher import charges on Chinese car
makers that led to a fall in Chinese
exports to Russia.
The timing of this is also very
interesting in the sense that you've got
this meeting going on between Russia and
China just ahead of China meeting with
the U.S.
to to start trade negotiations.
We're also understanding perhaps that
there's going to be a request from
Washington for assistance from Beijing
when it comes to Ukraine.
Yes, Trump said that he's going to raise
that with presidency and actually
presidency did raise this issue with
Putin as well.
The question is how much leverage he has
in actually influencing Putin.
And he says he expects Russia to cut a
fair deal with Ukraine and that any deal
will have to have the agreement of both
parties through mutual dialogue.
But he also reiterated that the root
cause of this issue must be addressed.
The legitimate security concerns of that
war must be addressed.
And I guess he is referring back to that
expansion of Natal, as he has pointed
out in the past.
And the question now is, you know, with
Trump perhaps a little bit more amenable
to a solution that is more favorable to
Russia, freezing the lines, the conflict
of the current lines and leaving some of
the territory in Russian hands that
perhaps provide an opening.
But what complicates matters now is that
now that President Trump has signed that
minerals deal with President Zelensky,
his tone has also softened towards
Ukraine.
So where sort of that shift the balance
of power is going to shift is still a
big question mark.
You.